In the first century,
the apostle Paul received a vision
in which he was invited
to “step over into Macedonia.”
Paul and his traveling companions
eagerly accepted the invitation,
and they enjoyed Jehovah’s rich blessing
as evidenced in the positive results
they experienced in their ministry.
Today, the Service Committee is as eager
to follow the lead of the holy spirit
as Paul was in the first century.
There are still many parts of the world
where branches need publishers
to “step over”
and help them give a thorough witness.
To meet the need, the Service Committee
has arranged for such branches
to receive assistance
by means of special preaching campaigns.
Local publishers
and exemplary brothers and sisters
from other lands are invited to participate.
Often, such publishers
who respond to the initial invitation,
later decide to move to these areas of need.
In recent years,
special preaching campaigns
have been held in Africa, Asia,
Europe,
and South America.
What have been some of the results
of such special preaching campaigns?
In the recent past,
more than a million Arabic-speaking refugees
have fled to Europe.
The Service Committee arranged
for the Central Europe branch
to hold a special preaching campaign
to reach these refugees.
More than 600 publishers
from different parts
of the world participated,
and they distributed
some 30,000 pieces of literature.
Many of the refugees have been
very receptive to the good news,
even approaching publishers
at the literature carts and asking:
“Can you help us?
What does the Bible actually teach?”
This special campaign concluded
with an Arabic-language regional convention,
which was a milestone for the Arabic field.
Over 1,600 attended
from 43 different countries.
Approximately 25 percent
of those in attendance
were interested persons.
Outstanding campaigns
have also been held in Bulgaria.
In 2009,
Bulgaria reported
a publisher-to-population ratio
of 1 to 4,600.
Since then, four special preaching campaigns
have been held there
and 1,782 publishers
from countries
throughout Europe participated.
They placed
over 175,000 pieces of literature,
started 1,775 Bible studies,
and 8 congregations and 7 groups
have been formed.
Consider one example:
Before 2010,
there were no Witnesses
in the village of Karlovo.
That year
a special preaching campaign was organized.
As a result,
a man named Gosho was contacted.
From his own reading of the Bible,
he realized that the local churches
do not teach the truth.
So he stopped attending church services
but never stopped praying.
During the campaign,
he met Jehovah’s Witnesses on the street.
They wanted to talk with him about the Bible,
but he interrupted them and asked,
“Do you believe that Jesus is equal to God?”
The brothers answered, “No.”
“Do you believe that God is a trinity?
Do you collect a tithe?”
The brothers again answered, “No.”
“Then you are welcome in my home,”
said Gosho.
Immediately, a Bible study was started
with him and his wife, Ivanka,
and their son, Bogomil.
Both Ivanka and Bogomil
are now baptized.
Senegal has a vast untouched territory.
In 2015,
the country’s publisher-to-population ratio
was 1 to more than 12,000.
In recent years,
the Service Committee arranged
for three special preaching campaigns
in Senegal.
One sister from Portugal asked a householder
if she believed that God
had the power to resurrect the dead.
In a ridiculing way,
the woman replied:
“You mean my dead husband
“who’s been dead a long time
will come out of the grave?
Is this what you are telling me?”
The sister answered:
“That is what God has promised to do.
He will resurrect him alive in the flesh.”
Seeing that the sister was serious,
the woman asked,
“Is it really possible?”
The sister answered,
“It is written in God’s Word.”
With great joy,
the woman started to dance.
The sister highlighted information
on the resurrection
in the Listen to God  brochure.
Again, the woman started dancing with joy.
In Romania,
there are some four and a half million people
who live in unassigned territories.
During a two-month campaign,
publishers covered 1,359 localities
with a population of 1.8 million.
The publishers started
more than 1,000 Bible studies.
Here is just one experience:
Costel and Luminitza were very active
in their Orthodox religion.
However, Luminitza could not find answers
to her Bible questions,
and Costel saw much hypocrisy
with the priests.
Luminitza heard about Jehovah’s Witnesses
from her neighbor
who studied the Bible by telephone
with a Witness relative.
During the special campaign,
two brothers knocked on the couple’s door.
Luminitza was happy
that Jehovah’s Witnesses
had finally come to preach in her village.
She immediately accepted a Bible study.
Eventually,
Costel and their two teenage children
joined in the study.
The family immediately put into practice
what they learned from the Bible.
After the family learned on their own
that Witnesses do not celebrate birthdays,
they told their study conductors:
“We don’t want to keep sinning
against Jehovah.
“How many other things are we doing
that Jehovah hates?
Tell us everything that we are doing wrong
so that we can stop!”
In seven months,
the entire family began preaching
with the congregation.
After one month of sharing in the ministry,
they had started three Bible studies
in the village.
One year after their first contact
with Jehovah’s Witnesses,
Costel and Luminitza were baptized
at their first regional convention.
Now Costel is a ministerial servant,
and both children
are progressing very well spiritually.
Have you ever shared in preaching
in seldom-worked or unassigned territories?
Such concerted efforts have yielded
great success in many countries.
For example,
the Brazil branch invited publishers
throughout the branch territory
to participate in a preaching effort
that focused on the thousands
living along the Amazon River.
More than 10,000 local brothers
and sisters gave their support.
In one congregation’s territory,
some 400 people requested a Bible study.
Many of those who participated
in the preaching effort
described it as “a life-changing experience,”
and some decided to move
to the Amazon region.
In December 2015,
5 congregations in this region
had a total
of 6 elders, 2 ministerial servants,
9 regular pioneers, and 50 publishers.
By July 2016,
those numbers had increased tremendously.
In those 5 congregations,
the 6 elders
increased to 22,
the 2 ministerial servants increased to 17,
the 9 regular pioneers became 80,
and the 50 publishers grew to 177.
In total, over 865 publishers from Brazil
permanently ‘stepped over’
into the Amazon region,
and 7 new congregations were formed.
It’s clear that Jehovah is richly blessing
such preaching efforts.
Reports such as this,
strengthen our resolve
to do all that our circumstances allow
to reach as many as possible
with the good news.